# Day 4

## Subquery
A query within a query. You can break down a problem further than a JOIN. It allows you to take the results of one query and apply them to another query.
- Inner Query
- Outer Query
- Brackets are very important in Subqueries.
Question: Find out the company names of the CustomerIDs who have placed an order and then who hasn't placed an order.
- Equal to (=) gives you one value whereas IN gives you a set of values
```SQL
SELECT c.CompanyName FROM Customers c WHERE c.CustomerID IN
(SELECT o.CustomerID FROM Orders o)

SELECT c.CompanyName FROM Customers c WHERE c.CustomerID NOT IN
(SELECT o.CustomerID FROM Orders o)
```
If using JOIN for same question:
```SQL
SELECT DISTINCT c.CompanyName FROM Customers c
INNER JOIN Orders o ON o.CustomerID=c.CustomerID
```
Here SELECT DISTINCT is necessary because otherwise company names repeat because of multiple orders.

You can use JOIN and Subqueries together.

Where a nested query can act as column, acting part of the outer query.
```SQL
SELECT o.OrderID, o.ProductID, o.UnitPrice, o.Quantity, o.Discount,
(SELECT MAX(od.UnitPrice) FROM [Order Details] od) AS "Max Price"
FROM [Order Details] o
```
A nested query acting as a table.

Using a Subquery in the WHERE clause, list all Orders from the [Order Details] table where the product has been discontinued.
```SQL
SELECT o.*
FROM [Order Details] o
WHERE o.ProductID IN
(SELECT p.ProductID
FROM Products p WHERE p.Discontinued=1)
```
Using JOIN

```SQL
SELECT od.OrderID, od.ProductID, od.UnitPrice, od.Quantity, od.Discount
FROM [Order Details] od
INNER JOIN Products p ON p.ProductID=od.ProductID
WHERE p.Discontinued !=0
```
## Union and Union All
Producing one column.

Example: Create a joint IDs column for EmployeeIDs and SupplierIDs.

```SQL
SELECT e.EmployeeID AS "Employee/Supplier"
FROM Employees e
UNION ALL
SELECT s.SupplierID FROM Suppliers s
```
But UNION ALL gives you all the IDs including duplicates so use UNION for distinct IDs.
```SQL
SELECT e.EmployeeID AS "Employee/Supplier"
FROM Employees e
UNION
SELECT s.SupplierID FROM Suppliers s
```

## Business
### Project Environment
#### Risk
You need to understand what are the implications for your project through a risk analysis. It will help you mitigate risks, to plan and be prepared.

Risk Identification tools:
- Brainstorming
- Prompt List: curated list done by a third party
- Delphi: curated list list done by a third party
- SWOT
- Previous Experience

Dealing with Risk:
Once you've identified your risk, you need to deal with it.
- Avoidance
- Transfer (i.e. insurance)    
- Reduce
- Accept
- Exploit: perceived risk and exploit it, i.e. Portugal Clean & Safe tourism midst Covid19
- Share: share the risk and reward
- Enhance: to reap bigger rewards
- Ignore

#### Stakeholders
All shareholders are stakeholders but not all stakeholders are shareholders.

#### Power/Interest Grid
- Watch: high power, little interest, i.e. CEO. Pay attention and actively watch he is doing for abrupt changes that might impact you.
- Keep informed: low power, some interest, i.e. Talent team at week 2 of training.
- Keep onside: some power, some interest, i.e. Sales team at week 2 of training.
- Constant, active, management: high power, high influence, i.e. Trainers, Richard
- Keep satisfied: high power, some influence
- Ignore: no power, no influence


#### Stakeholder Attitudes
- Champion: actively fights for your cause
- Supporter
- Neutral
- Critic
- Opponent: actively against the cause
- Blocker

#### Planning
##### Network Diagrams
Helps understand dependencies, where are the critical paths to deploy more resources and make sure that path is maintained.
- Logical dependencies - precedence table is converted into a simple diagram: network diagram
