# Day 1 - Introduction to Database

## Introduction to database
### What is a Database?
Database: is a structured set of data held in a computer, especially one that is accessible in various ways. It is a repository, a collection of data that we access through a tool, i.e. Azure Data Studio.

### Tables:
We must be able to structure tables to contain the right type of information so that we can query it.
  - columns are vertical and rows are horizontal
  - columns are attributes of a characteristic
  - rows are a set of attributes corresponding to one entrance that table describes
  - Database Management System (DBMS): to perform database functions of sorting, retrieving, etc.

### Types of Database:
- One-to-One, i.e. employee details - NHS details
- One-to-Many, i.e. customer details - purchase details
- Many-to-Many, i.e. students - course. A junction table is used to change a many-to-many relation to a one-to-many.

### Primary Key:
- uniquely identifies each record in the table
- constraints: must be unique, it must always have an entry it cannot be blank/null, it must never change
- type: simple or composite/compound

### Candidate Key:
- all keys that are eligible to become primary key

### Foreign Key:
- used to create solid relationships between Tables
- constraints: used to prevent actions that would destroy links between tables

## Structured Query language

### Languages:
- Data Manipulation Language (DML): just concerned with data and nothing else.
    - select; insert; update; delete

- Data Definition Language (DDL): how your database is defined (table)
    - create; alter; drop; truncate (delete everything from the table)

- Data Control Language (DCL):
    - grant; revoke

- Transaction Control Language (TCL):
    - commit; rollback; savepoint

### Data Types:
- VARCHAR: adaptable to different lengths of characters, it's a variable character.
- CHAR or Character: fixed lengths, 50% faster than VARCHAR at retrieving data.
- INT: signed range is from -2147483648 to 2147483647.
- DATE or TIME or DATETIME
- Decimal or Numeric
- Binary
- Float: a floating point number.
- BIT: a bit-value type. The number of bits per value is specified in size. The size parameter can hold a value from 1 to 64. The default value for size is 1.
```SQL
CREATE DATABASE saskia_db add
USE saskia_db

CREATE TABLE film_tab
(
    film_id INT IDENTITY(1,1),
    film_name VARCHAR(20),
    film_type VARCHAR(10),
    date_of_release DATETIME,
    director_name VARCHAR(10),
    writer_name VARCHAR(10),
    star_cast VARCHAR(10),
    film_language VARCHAR(10),
    official_website VARCHAR(30),
    plot_summary VARCHAR(max)



);

INSERT INTO film_tab
(
    film_name,film_type, plot_summary


)
VALUES
(
    'Geo-Storm', 'sci-fi', 'maximum'
)

SELECT * FROM film_tab
-- ALTER TABLE film_tab ADD lead_hero VARCHAR(10);
-- -- ALTER TABLE flim_tab DROP COLUMN plot_summary;  
-- SP_HELP film_tab

-- -- SP_HELP film_tab
-- -- DROP TABLE film_table
-- DROP TABLE film_tab

-- ALTER TABLE film_tab




CREATE TABLE employee
(
    employee_ID_number INT IDENTITY (0,1),
    employee_first_name VARCHAR(10),
    employee_last_name VARCHAR(10)
    PRIMARY KEY(employee_ID_number)
)

CREATE TABLE nhs_table
(
    employee_nhs_number INT IDENTITY (1,1),
    nhs_GP VARCHAR(20),
    employee_id INT,
    FOREIGN KEY (employee_id) REFERENCES employee(employee_ID_number)
);
Normalisation

### Wildcards

SELECT * FROM employee_info
SELECT * FROM Customers c
WHERE c.Region LIKE '_A'

SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Customers c
WHERE c.Region='WA' or c.Region='SP'

SELECT * FROM EmployeeTerritories emp WHERE emp.TerritoryID BETWEEN 06800 AND 09999

SELECT p.ProductID, p.ProductName FROM Products p
WHERE p.UnitPrice < 5.00

SELECT * FROM Categories
WHERE CategoryName LIKE '[BS]%'


SELECT o.EmployeeID, COUNT(*) AS "NumberofOrders"
FROM Orders o
GROUP BY EmployeeID
HAVING EmployeeID IN (5,7)


SELECT c.Region, c.CompanyName AS "Company Name", c.City + ',' + c.Country "City"
FROM Customers c WHERE c.Region IS NOT NULL


SELECT e.FirstName + ' ' + e.LastName AS "Employee Name" FROM Employees e


SELECT DISTINCT c.Country FROM Customers c WHERE c.Region IS NOT NULL

'''
