# DAY 2 - Querying

## Variations on INSERT
- Changing the order of the columns
- Omitting column names
- Leaving columns out

When respecting the order of the columns:
```SQL
INSERT INTO table_name
VALUES
(
  'value_column1', 'value_column2'
)
```
When changing the order:
```SQL
INSERT INTO table_name
(
  column2_name, column1_name
)
VALUES
(
  'value_column2', 'value_column1'
)
```
## NULL

Null is not nothing, it does not equate to zero, it isn't even an empty string. A value can be NULL but NULL never equates NULL because NULL is an undefined value. 
```SQL
IS NULL
```
## ON DELETE CASCADE
ON DELETE CASCADE s to be added to the primary key and will ensure that the moment you delete something from primary key all the foreign keys attached will delete that data. 

## Normalisation
Normalisation is about getting rid of data redundancy.
### 1st Normal Form
- Make everything Atomic
- no repeating groups

### 2nd Normal Form
- it is in 1NF
- all non-key attributes are fully functional dependent on the primary key

### 3rd Normal Form
- it is in 2NF
- there is notransitive functional dependency

## Querying on a SQL Database
- SELECT * FROM : to select all columns
- SELECT COUNT (column_name) FROM: number of rows
- AS: to give new column a name
- !=0 : not equal to 0
- Decimal, numeric, INT, SMALLINT and BIT do not need quotes
- AND: only where two conditions are met will the rows be represented. It only works in WHERE clause. 
- IN: combines everything together
- BETWEEN: includes boundary values
```SQL
SELECT * FROM EmployeeTerritories emp WHERE emp.TerritoryID BETWEEN 06800 AND 09999
```
- GROUP BY _ HAVING
```SQL
SELECT o.EmployeeID, COUNT(*) AS "NumberofOrders"
FROM Orders o
GROUP BY EmployeeID
HAVING EmployeeID IN (5,7)
```

## Wildcards
Wildcards are used as a substitute for any other characters in a strong when using the LIKE operator.
- % a substitute for zero or more characters.
-_ a substitute for a single character
- [charlist] sets and ranges of characters to match i.e. LIKE [ABC]%
- [^charlist] stes and ranges of characters that don't match

```SQL
SELECT * FROM employee_info
SELECT * FROM Customers c
WHERE c.Region LIKE '_A'

SELECT * FROM Categories
WHERE CategoryName LIKE '[BS]%'

SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Customers c
WHERE c.Region='WA' or c.Region='SP'

SELECT p.ProductID, p.ProductName FROM Products p
WHERE p.UnitPrice < 5.00


```
## Concatenate
```SQL
SELECT c.Region, c.CompanyName AS "Company Name", c.City + ',' + c.Country "City"
FROM Customers c WHERE c.Region IS NOT NULL


SELECT e.FirstName + ' ' + e.LastName AS "Employee Name" FROM Employees e


SELECT DISTINCT c.Country FROM Customers c WHERE c.Region IS NOT NULL
